# Node.js Foundation Advisory Board Meeting
May 4, 2015  
2:00pm PDT  
via Go To Meeting  

## Attendees
Bert Belder (BB)  
Chris Saint-Amant (CS)  
Erik Toth (ET)  
Mikeal Rogers (MR)  
Chris Williams (CW)  
Julien Gilli (JG)  
Scott Hammond (SH)  
Todd Moore (TM)  
Travis Odom (TO)  
Wyatt Lyon Preul (WP)  
Danese Cooper (DC)  
Mike Dolan (MD)  
Scott Nicholas (SN)  
Todd Benzies (TB)  

## Recap of Previous Meeting (ET)
-	Erik Toth reviewed the previous Advisory Board meeting minutes
-	A question was raised about the charter of the Community Working Group
-	CW:  Set up unified discussion points of what reunification is, what Node.js Foundation is, etc.
-	It was noted that part of this work is also being done in the convergence working group.
-	DC:  We are at the point where we need to create a single community conversation.  There is a need for talking points for people that work on the Board side that are not involved in the day-to-day Community.  Will take the role of bringing updates from the community back to the Advisory Board.

## Status Update from Linux Foundation (MD)
-	Joint TC meeting last Thursday, will meet again next week.  Continuing to go through convergence plan (operational alignment, etc.)
-	The minutes are all online and recordings are being posted to YouTube.
-	Overall plan is 2-3 weeks to get repos consolidated where there are noncontroversial areas
-	Setup github/node.js to stage this
-	Some more work on controversial areas, but starting discussions on how to move forward
-	Moving toward completion on legal front, last call for comments on bylaws which then should be able to be posted publicly later this week
-	Drafted a blog post of high-level vision of where things are going, timeline, etc. to address some of the concerns raised
-	A question was raised about how quickly the Foundation can be stood up (not factoring in the technical convergence planning)
-	MD:  Can announce fairly quickly, though we want to have members locked down for announcement.  Community discussion can happen about membership.  Get community devs on board and support for the org.  Need several weeks to get this in line.  Draft press release in in the works, just need members/community
-	A question was raised about what is blocking a vote on the io.js side?
-	MD:  Technical community from io.js and node.js are both on board with the plan just waiting on both communities to vote yes and then start working off of convergence repo.
-	A concern was raised that there was a sense on TCs that TC members were aware, but unclear if the broader community was aware and if any public discussion/review was needed
-	MR:  should not be a surprise to anyone
-	MD:  at last TC call, the plan was that the TCs would give a week for review and then vote

## Plans for Advisory Board
-	A question was raised about the plans for the Advisory Board once the Foundation boots up
-	TM:  Hold a few meetings after foundation starts, then transition to a formal Board.
-	SH:  The Advisory Board could get morphed into a different form to provide community input into the Board
-	MR:  Until Foundation Board meeting, this group is needed.  Once the Board meeting happens, then we can reevaluate.
-	SH:  If we keep the Advisory Board, what topics would it address?
-	TM:  Meetup plans, feedback on roadmaps, docs from foundation in public forum.
-	DC:  Board should be business focus.
-	SH:  For example, if there is a technical feature iâ€™d like to see in Node.js and we can not do it ourselves and we want the Board to assign budget to it -- how do we bring this to the board?
-	MD:  The TSC meets and discusses proposal of plan.  If TSC agrees, the TSC Chair would bring this as a proposal to the Board.  The TSC chair always has a seat on the Board.  Also, in the TSC discussions prior to the Board, someone may stand up from the community and take on the role, eliminating the need for funding or bringing this to the Board.
-	DC:  A community committee may make sense to fill the gaps between the Board and the TSC

## Open Discussion
-	A question was raised if the basic financials be public once they exist?
-	Yes.
-	CW:  Not available for next meeting.  Can someone help as moderator for the meeting?
-	Todd Moore volunteered to take the moderator role for the upcoming Advisory Board meeting.


## New Action Items

- DC to be added to Convergence WG (to support community interests) and report back to AB (MD)
- TM to be moderator for next AB meeting.
- Add DC to Legal distribution list (SN, MD)
