# December 19, 2014

## Attendees
Chris Williams (CW)
Kevin Decker (KD)
Erik Toth (ET)
TJ Fontaine (TF)
Scott Hammond (SH)
Dan Shaw (DS)
Todd Moore (TM)
Issac Roth (IR)
Chris Saint-Amant (CS)
Bert Belder (BB)
Trevor Norris (TN)
Gianugo Rabellino (GR)
Danese Cooper (DC)




## Public Recap

### Node 0.12 Status (TF)
**TF:** Tried to release 0.11.15 but blocked by fix to 0.10.35. Should be ready to move forward with 0.11.15 on Monday. No plans for new work for 0.11.15, so 0.12 release is on schedule, e.g. will await potential new issues and release 0.12 two weeks after 0.11.15 release.

### Code of Conduct WG Status (TF)
**TM:** No meeting.
**TF:** Unable to get a time scheduled, so no status update.

### Trademark and Website WG Status (SH)
**SH:** Recommend multi-trademark strategy with main trademark and derivative: API compliance certification and developer certification. Recommend there is no permissible use for trademark of tradeshow materials, merchandise, etc. Derivative trademarks can be user for their respective purposes.

### Advisory Board WG Status (DS)
**DS:** In the process of getting recommendations for community members tobe added to temporary Advisory Board. Will put to current AB for vote. Have feedback and candidates, but trying to find parties that are interested and available enough to engage. Raeched out to community members who have expressed concern about board, but need people who are available to engage.

### Technical Committee/Governance WG Status (BB)
**BB:** First meeting got stuck on voting vs consensus so other topics were discussed: coordination of work and roadmaps. Did not come to clear resolutions, but made progress for follow up meetings.

### Compliance/Certification/API WG Status (DS)
**DS:** With 0.12 will be able to define API and assertion suite as API stands now. With that will be able to define what goes into 1.0, 2.0, etc versions of Node.js. Will facilitate setting up technical session at beginning of January to make progress on the technical side.


## Review of Action Items (CW, et. al.)

### AB Position on io.js
**SH:** Posted in website and multiple conversations occurred (DS, IS, SH, etc). Appeared to be consistent messaging.

### Kickoff of CoC WG
**TF:** Did not get kicked off. No available time between other WG meetings.
**CW:** Will this happen before new year?
**TF:** Not sure about new year, but possibly before next advisory board meeting. At this point won’t try to schedule before new year.


## New Business (Private)

### Trademark and Website WG Open Discussion (Scott Hammond)
**SH:** TM arranged for attorney to review and provide guidance and was very helpful. Out of the came to recommendations mentioned earlier advocating mulitmark strategy with umbrella and derivative marks for certifications. Individually has gone through published guidelines on the Node.js website as well as other project (jQuery, Docker, Mongo, etc). I board is comfortable with WG recommendation, an attorney will update and modify current guidelines to reflect the recommendation. Seeking feedback on recommendation from advisory board.
**TF:** Is there any notion of grandfathering or explicit uses that fall under “acceptable use”? A lot is looking forward, but what has been discussed for current users.
**SH:** Good point, have ot discussed but can for next meeting.
**DS:** Much conversation was around self-certification but didn’t spend a lot of time on the primary mark, but instead defining sub-marks.
**TF:** Would like clarification on what uses fall under which marks especially with current uses and assets. Will probably fall out with exercise of updating current guidelines.
**SH:** Any other comments or considerations? otherwise, next step will be to update trademark usage guidelines. Also talked about whether or not project should charge individuals and organizations for API compliance and certification. Some project do charge to fund development activities, but tend to penalize smaller players disproportionately, so concluded that fees should not be charged at this time.
**TF:** The idea was that result would be published and community would verify. Should result not be able to be independently verified, what would happen to existing certification holder? Is there recourse?
**DS:** Not clear what cheating would actually look like.
**TF:** Concern is that people are having bad experiences with distro that claims compatibility but does not actually conform. In the scenario where compatibility is broken, what is done in that circumstance.
**TM:** When you have a mark, anytime someone is out of compliance you address that with them and there is either a period of time to correct or they are asked to stop using the mark.
**SH:** Also discussed expanding role to cover governance for non-technical issues, such as disciplinary actions re: trademark, conferences, sanctioned summit or “trade show”. Also discussed working with NodeSummit organization to make progress in that direction, possibly looking to get involved more heavily in the upcoming NodeSummit. Other non-technical issues involved fundraising, etc.
**CW:** As a conf organizer, interested in the idea of anointing one conference and would this have geographical boundaries? One per country? Continent?
**SH:** Idea is to designate one singular summit but there could be room for regional ones, but this is from initial discussion.
**IR:** Discussion was that we wanted an annual conference, but recognized one already existed so rather than competing look to merge. Intention to create a new event out of both efforts.
**DS:** Especially with concern to timing of the upcoming event and ease of bootstrapping.
**IR:** There’s a disconnect, so need to understand anointing an existing thing or creation of a new one.
**DS:** Charles is open to expansion and exposure, but unsure that path of working with NodeSummit is the long term goal. Too early to tell.
**IR:** Tried to set up conversation with Charles prior to this meeting, but were unable to.
**DS:** Can we talk more about non-technical contributions of WG/AB?
**IR:** Should WGs be renamed or merged?
**TF:** Should the same CoC cover both technical contributions and conferences/non-technical issues? Needs to be discussed.
Proposal to keep the CoC working group separate from this expanded non-technical WG.
**BB:** Is there a draft or summary of direction so far as looking forward to Node 2.0 seems premature re: API compliance?
**DS:** Yes, will furnish notes and will call technical meeting which will include BB.
**TF:** More than anything we have a list of questions. Not trying to decide the mechanism, but putting together a skeleton/framework to bring to advisory board for certification.
**DS:** Re: Advisory Board WG will not define charter, but will make membership recommendations.
**IS:** Certification WG is a long term so will exist. Certification wants more responsibility. Allow CoC to run to completion and blend into non-technical WG. Trademark WG will also run to completion. End up with Certification, Technical and Non-Technical WG.
**SH:** TM has examples of community-involved WG? We want to hear customers/community loud and clear.
**TM:** Projects are more successful if community has view into board or foundation. Would ask users to form a WG that would officially funnel community feedback into board or foundation. These would be people who are trusted in the community to represent their interests. Found to be useful to engage the whole user base.
**DS:** Sounds like AB Charter WG could work with non-corporate contributing parties to get more involvement.
**TM:** Also can use surveys or other outreach mechanisms.

### Scheduling
**DC:** Could we find a person to lead scheduling of WG meeting as then can have better oversight of schedules across WGs.
**CW:** Goal is to schedule out AB meetings far in advance.
**TF:** Propose longer time between AB meetings such that WG have more opportunity to work.
**IR:** Feel like WG are making progress.
**DC:** it’s important to keep community engaged, so frequency helps that.
**TF:** Have WG schedule their own time and publish proposals, information.
**IR:** Propose monthly cadence for AB and wrap up WG in next 2 meetings.
**TF:** In the interim provide an executive summary in GitHub of WG meetings.
**DC:** Yes, just don’t want the appearance that the AB went dark.
**SH:** Possibly keep current cadence (every other week) but schedule shorter meetings: 1 hour.
**CW:** Yes, 2 week cadence after new year. When would be best to start new year.
**SH:** Probably second week of new year.
**DC:** Agreed.
**CW:** Please participate in doodles as quickly as possible.
**SH:** 15 minutes public and 45 minutes private.

## Node 0.12
**IR:** Early January release and io.js is second week of Jan. This isn’t inline for the good of the greater community.
**TF:** They are different. Different version for v8 for example. Node.js team is reticent to upgrade v8 this late in the game. Please for io.js was to release on Fedor’s birthday, but not sure how to reconcile.
**BB:** looks like AB is going somewhere, so long term io.js and node need to become one project again. Does anyone have a feeling for a timeline of AB decisions to go into effect?
**SH:** Which things in particular are you interested in?
**BB:** Project governance, new charter or foundation. Not saying it has to be in place before projects can merge but there are few concrete achievements out of the AB. Formally Node is still being run that same as always, so a timeline for change would enable process of messaging and thinking about merge.
**SH:** Re: governance sounds like group agreed to consensus-seeking and openness.
**TF:** Yes, core team has recorded meetings, just needs to publish.
**SH:** Moving on those things now. Around governance if there are other things you want to see the WG is in place. If there are things they need to act on sooner let’s go do them. Recommendation would be that people who are already on project team continue working and open to additional people. if necessary, expand project team to merge with io.js if there is a contributor delta. We can do that now. Make decisions and act now.
**BB:** We’re not in complete agreement, specifically around voting. Assuming this is possible to work out, the question is what will happen to the work done so far on io.js? Will every change need to be discussed again? Will Ben be working on Node? Will build system be moved over? On io.js there’s no one owner so Bert will have to make case to convince group. Need concrete change to point to if he hopes to make that case to the team. Very much in favor of working toward that.
**SH:** Great to hear. Sounds like there are specific issues that need to be resolved to lets get on the phone and make decisions and take concrete steps to accomplish them. I trust if we walk through this that the intentions are to work on one, community-driven Node.js project.
**BB:** There was a lot of additional interest in io.js, so what is communicated to new participants.
**TM:** We want all that energy in one place, so if there’s a discrete list of items needed to do that let’s go work on that.
**IR:** Maybe a new tooling/build system WG needs to be formed. In other projects control over the build system is a big deal. Point of security and trust and needs to be thoughtfully governed.
**TM:** It’s build and test, especially when moving toward compatibility tests.
**TF:** Agree we need to solve this, but does this affect the release proximity problem?
**SH:** Let’s find a way to have the groups work together soon.
**IR:** Concerned the io.js team will not reconcile with Node.js until they know its in a community-owned place.
**TM:** Would it help to be more public?
**BB:** It doesn’t need to be completely in place, but it needs to be clearly laid out.
**TM:** Maybe a blog post?
**BB:** From a practical perspective I want to merge projects now. See that Node.js is making progress and it’s possible. Would prefer not to have parallel efforts. Will enumerate list.
**SH:** Can we target a date for a call to work through path to resolve issues.
**BB:** Will probably be early January.
**SH:** Please send list of attendees so we can get the group together ASAP.
**IR:** Does build system require WG? DS has worked toward it a lot.
**DS:** Don’t want to slow it down via political process.
**TF:** Definitely room for improvement but what we have works.
**IR:** We need a neutral community build infra.
**SH:** I don’t care what’s used as long as it fulfills technical needs and works toward community owned.
**TF:** One concern is the parts of the system that require Joyent owned private keys. Those pieces need to be more secure and represent trust in builds.
**DC:** Sounds like one of the topics that needs to be hashed out as we design home for Node.js that is amenable to both sides. Need to focus on list of needs rather than bikeshed on individual topics. Agrees that build system is a need; are there other topics?
**BB:** Yes, additional things are role of project leadership/TC. Do they define roadmap? Even sidestepping voting vs consensus would be good to define technical roles and figure out how to define roadmap, scheduling releases, meeting deadlines, etc. Does not want to throw away all work io.js has done toward these goals. Would like node to use community maintained build system.
**DS:** Is is possible to gap between build and release? Need broader build coverage and testing, but then there’s blessed Node.js release.
**TF:** So long as supported platform matrix doesn’t change.
**DS:** One goal is to improve matrix.
**TF:** Want to clarify build vs release. There’s a wider desire for expanded support matrix. The blocker is not necessarily the build infra, but the expertise to validate against new platforms. A broader conversation needs to be had, but not concerned with the actual location of build infra.
**BB:** Agree and understand with matrix. io.js is not merely about supporting more platforms, that’s a minor point. It’s more important for making developers more effective. Also, will supply a group of people to work on this so TF isn’t solely responsible.
**TF:** Definitely want that help, no argument on me there.
**SH:** Sounds like BB will pull together list of issues along with participants to resolve them.

### Additional Needs (SH)
**SH:** What else should we be working on?
**DS:** Step up effort for community involvement.
**BB:** Engagement from other groups like TC39.


## New Action Items
Use GitHub to solicit questions for the next Advisory Board Meeting.
Schedule next meeting (most likely 3 weeks out). 2 week cadence, shorter meetings. (CW)
Merge meeting minutes PR (TF: Anyone can merge and core team will update website.)
Enumerate specific issues to be resolved to establish best chance of io.js and node to unify into a single project (BB)




## Next Meeting

Please join our next meeting, Wednesday Jan 14, 2015 at 4:00 PM EST / 1:00 AM PST at
[https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/524998381](https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/524998381) or please dial-in in using your telephone.

```
Please join my meeting from your computer, tablet or smartphone.
https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/524998381

You can also dial in using your phone.
United States (Long distance): +1 (646) 749-3122
Access Code: 524-998-381
More phone numbers: https://global.gotomeeting.com/524998381/numbersdisplay.html


```
