# November 7, 2014

## Attendance

* Chris Williams
* Scott Hammond
* Dan Shaw
* Chris Saint-Amant
* Issac Schlueter
* Issac Roth
* TJ Fontaine
* Cian O'Maidin
* Kevin Decker
* Eric Toth
* Bert Belder
* Danese Cooper
* Todd Moore
* Gianugo Rabellino

## Review of Minutes

There was a review Meeting Minutes the previous advisory meeting, this was accepted by all attendees as correct. There was a review of the action items and update on the status. The delay on the previous action items were identified as not having the necessary availability of time to accomplish. It was made clear that the group would like to ensure that all roadblocks are cleared. Also it was made known that henceforth all action items will be set with a clear owner, captured clearly and set with a deadline. That assignment and responsibility chart is below:

| Action Item | Deadline | Responsible |
|:-------------------------------------|
| Github Repo | Nov 6 | TJ |
| Call for Feedback on Community Representation on Advisory Board | Nov 10 | dshaw |
| Posting of initial information/review | Nov 7 | TJ |
| Identification of changes to make acceptable to all parties | Nov 14 | TJ |
| Schedule all meetings for the event until middle of January | Nov 6 | Chris Williams |
| Identify a better communication channel for the board meetings | Nov 14 | Chris Williams |
| Strawman Proposal from working group about naming, website, and trademark issues. | Nov 14 | Danese |

## Community Representation on Advisory Board

A discussion was focused on how to include public/community participants in order to provide a better representation of the broader community, geography, ecosystems
  * A recommendation was made for working Groups in order to better support Geographical distances
  * Call for participation after finalized.
  * Definition of the community part
  * Github Repo, issue, discussion, consensus, and resolution
  * Dan Shaw as responsible individual for curation of the effort.

### Publication and notice of the public discussion
It was decided that there needs to be much better publication of the public discussion. At least 3 Days before next meeting the public will be provided with dial-in numbers and meeting information. Erik Toth and Chris Williams to do a dry run beforehand. The advisory board agrees to leverage their available social channels to spread the word about the meeting.



Discussion around the intention and targets of the advisory board. It was made known that the "crisis" in node right now is that governance of node is not well defined or well distributed.

A proposal was set forth to focus this effort around two key tenets:

* Establish Governance Model
* Release Schedule

Further discussions came the resolution that the second is a derivative of the first and the first must be addressed as soon as possible.

## Meeting Minute Workflow
The advisory board identified and agreed to the following workflow as to how meeting minutes are reviewed, finalized and published.

* In meeting, Google Docs are used to collect collaborative minutes.
* Request for comments will be open for the two (2) days following the event
* A notification of final review is made known at the end of the request for comments period.
* Minutes are converted to markdown and posted to the public repo for the advisory board.
* In blog post that includes the meeting notes, there will be information for the next meeting and including access.

## Trademark & Website
A discussion about the trademarks surrounding the project was held. There was a general consensus that, “a singular healthy direction for node” is best for all parties. A working group was charged to discuss, gather input, recommend about the trademark, website, and name issues of the project. Danese was identified as the responsible driver for this effort. Framed targets for the effort is specifically ""what are the framework for proper use of the trademark, name, and iconography". Mention was made about group to talk about website content management, specifically who decides what goes on the node.js website? For now that discussion was tabled to the working group.

Working group for trademark and website

* Todd Moore
* Issac Roth
* Scott Hammond
* Danese Cooper
* Dan Shaw - Available as needed.


## Miscellaneous
* 0.12 is done except for a patch on windows.

# Next Meeting

Please join our next meeting, Nov 20, 2014 at 2:00 PM EST / 11:00 AM PST at [https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/532589549](https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/532589549) or please dial-in in using your telephone.

```
United States: +1 (646) 982-0002
Australia: +61 2 8355 1023
Austria: +43 (0) 7 2088 0034
Belgium: +32 (0) 38 08 1855
Canada: +1 (647) 497-9350
Denmark: +45 (0) 69 91 80 05
Finland: +358 (0) 931 58 1746
France: +33 (0) 182 880 455
Germany: +49 (0) 692 5736 7313
Ireland: +353 (0) 15 290 180
Italy: +39 0 699 36 98 80
Netherlands: +31 (0) 708 912 514
New Zealand: +64 (0) 9 909 7882
Norway: +47 21 03 58 95
Spain: +34 931 81 6668
Sweden: +46 (0) 852 503 498
Switzerland: +41 (0) 435 0006 96
United Kingdom: +44 (0) 330 221 0085


Access Code: 532-589-549
Audio PIN: Shown after joining the meeting

Meeting ID: 532-589-549
```
