# Node.js Foundation Advisory Board Meeting
June 1, 2015
2:00pm PDT
via Go To Meeting

## Attendees

Mikeal Rogers (MR)
Daniel Khan (DK)
Guy Ellis (GE)
Erik Toth (ET)
Cian O’Maidin (CO)
Danese Cooper (DC)
Tony Pujals (TP)
Isaac Roth (IR)
Brian Vanderbusch (BV)
Scott Hammond (SH)
Chris Williams (CW)
Dan Shaw (DS)
Travis Odom (TO)
Mike Dolan (MD)
Scott Nicholas (SN)
Todd Benzies (TB)

## Updates from Linux Foundation
SN:  Bylaws now reflect individual member structure.  Operating under cutoff of June 8th to join for launch -- must have docs in by then.  If you have any questions, reach out to Mike, Scott, or Todd from the Linux Foundation team.  If you’ve signed the agreement, send to membership@nodejs.org.
GE:  Just to clarify, this is for corporate membership?  SN:  Yes.  But, to be clear, there is no permanent cutoff, this is just to be part of the launch.
MR:  Not feasible to have individuals signed up before launch.
MR:  How many companies have signed up?
SN:  A number of signed membership agreements -- pleased with momentum.  We expect to see additional memberships come in in the remaining week.
MD:  We are on a typical path compared to other projects.  Most companies are working through legal and financial processes.  Others will come in after if they can’t make it in time.
MR:  Has been running around a pushing people to get in.
MD:  Please continue to help push your contacts to sign agreements and get them in.
CO:  When is announcement?  SN:  June 16th.

## Conference Lines
SN:  Can hold next meeting on GoToMeeting -- we’ll make sure that dial-in is distributed in advance.

## Status of Advisory Board
SN:  When to transition Advisory Board into Community Workgroup or something similar?
DC:  We’ve discussed this, last meeting we decided that this group would convene a few more times and then transition into a Community Workgroup.
MD:  In io.js -- is this Advisory Board well known?
MR:  People know, but this forum isn’t great for developers.  However, the actual output of these meetings is viewed by the developers.

## Nodeconf
MR:  Let’s wait until first Board meeting for discussion.
CW:  Has anyone reached out to Node Summit?
MR:  It is really just one event, not sure what we would do with them.
DC:  Lots of different models for events around a technology -- managed by Foundation and not.
MR:  Once we have the Foundation, this will be much easier to work out.

## New Business
DC:  Let everyone know we have been working in Community Workgroup the topography of how we will all communicate (i.e. groups, mail lists, etc.)
??:  A question in io.js about trademark?
MR:  There is a line of communication and a thread with some of the members.
MD:  Have been facilitating communications with lawyers, they are pretty close with trademark license and set of guidelines.  If you want to participate in that discussion, please get you membership agreement in soon.
DC:  How do other Foundations handle PR?
MD:  Jennifer Cloer of Linux Foundation has been working on launch.  There is a Marketing meeting biweekly (next is Thursday of this week).
DC:  Can we be applying for a booth at OSCON, or LinuxCon, or Euro OSCON, etc.
MR:  We have an engaged evangelism group in io.js -- huge reach on social media, etc.  If we need volunteers, we can get them through this group.  Just need coordination on the Marketing Committee level.
MD:  We’ll have Jennifer Cloer make the request.
DC:  Or, we can do a BOF night.
MR:  Please add me to the Marketing call.  SN:  Will do.
