# January 14, 2015

## Attendees
Chris Williams (CW)  
Erik Toth (ET)  
TJ Fontaine (TF)  
Scott Hammond (SH)  
Todd Moore (TM)  
Dan Shaw (DS)  
Isaac Schlueter (IS)  
TJ Fontaine (TF)  
Chris Saint-Amant (CS)  
Danese Cooper (DC)  
Cian O'Maiden (CO)  
Gianugo Rabellino (GR)  
Bert Belder (BB)  
Issac Roth (IR)  
Trevor Norris (TN)  



## Public Recap

### Review Previous Meeting Minutes (CW)
[2014-12-19 Meeting Minutes](https://github.com/joyent/nodejs-advisory-board/blob/baf4891436da11ed681d21464a267b9a2a8f9ad5/meetings/2014-12-19/minutes.md)  

### Node 0.12 Status (TF)
**TF:** Julian posted project plan. Continuing to work through finishing last PRs. 0.10.36/0.11.15 released this week.  
**DS:** Can it be cross-posted?  
**TF:** Moved to generic google groups list. Just need to make it public.  

### Review of Open Action Items (CW, et. al.)  
**SH:** Trademark, IP and Website group met. Recommendations got no additional feedback, so next step is to update existing guidelines and codify recommendations. ALso discussed working closer with NodeSummit. Spoke with Charles. Good alignment among groups to drive participation and sessions at upcoming NodeSummit.  
**DS:** Allocated time on Monday at NodeSummit.  
**DS:** Technical kickoff for compliance hoped to kick off in January, but wasn’t able to make it happen.  
**SH:** Is there a Doodle poll?  
**DS:** Not yet. Will do. Will follow up. Both NodeSource and StrongLoop are ready to move forward.  

### Open Public Discussion
No topics raised.  


## New Business (Private)

### Review of Open Action Items (CW, et. al.)  

#### NodeSummit Planning
**DC:** CSA asked what other open source organizations do  
**IR:** Is the idea for that to be monday?  
**DC:** No, panel is meant to be during regular run. IIRC Monday was more about tutorials. We had asked for real meeting of board and were told that would work.  
**IR:** Seems like there are a lot of thing on hold or anticipating formation of future entity. Is that actually happening and can people help out?  
**DC:** There is action that’s under way. There’s some well-understood steps.  
**SH:** Will cover shortly as separate agenda item.  
**DS:** We have a boardroom reserved on Monday and separate space on the afternoon of February 9.  
**CS:** Isn’t NodeSummit 10th and 11th?  
**DS:** It is but the day before is allocated for hardware workshoppy things, node school workshop, vendor workshops. Public boardroom slot is available to us.  
**CS:** When will Monday schedule be posted? For workshops, etc?  
**SH:** We should anticipate a larger group (more than 40 people) and schedule for Tuesday.  
**TJ:** as far as the agenda, that is up to nodesummit should be this week.  
**DS:** going into tuesday and wednesday will be hard as there will be events from 9-5. there is space carved out for the board to do boardy things. Monday is for watching people talk.  
**SH:** Do we want to have people watch the board have a meeting.  
**DC:** I think it’s an artificial distinction. Everyone knows these things require certain work. We should be grownups and talk about it aspirationally if we must.  
**SH:** My sense is that this will probably be people wanting details. We need to figure out the right way to go answer those.  
**DS:** I believe there is stage time for answering questions. Not watching the board, but QA/panel.  
**IS:** Won’t be another chance until NodeConf.  
**SH:** As long as there is time, we want to do that, we want to get feedback and engage.  
**DS:** I’m happy to take an action item , but I know Charles is blocking off time for TBD things to have on stage Tuesday or Wednesday.  

### Organization (SH, JZ)
_Deck Presented by SH_  
_Slide 2_  
**SH:** Quick update on organization and solicit feedback. Want to ensure this is drive by and for community and articulating correct mission statement and architecting with what we need. At 0.9 release of MOU.  
**TM:** Need to get something out this week.  
**SH:** Slides are for internal consumption for now pending feedback from AB.  
**CW:** Probably want to avoid discussing “merit” without specific details as to how it’s defined.  
**DC:** Can it be “technical contribution”?  
**SH:** Changed! So the idea is to have it driven by community who all want to promote increased adoption and development of Node.js. First pass of mission statement. Feedback welcome.  
_Slide 3_  
**IS:** Please send to group. Will process it and provide feedback.  
**CS:** Or add to Google doc for commenting.  
**SH:** Will throw in Google Docs.  
**DS:** Has anyone done a scan for “Node” the trademark?  
**BB:** Reads that it’s about things related to Node.js, but not Node.js itself.  
**CS:** There’s some value in that subjectivity. There’s clear stewardship in Node.js itself, but expanding to community/ecosystem is helpful. That general motivation could be a healthy thing.  
**IS:** I strongly disagree with this. We’re not outfitted to support or know about everything that is being done with Node. The purpose isn’t specific libaries, it’s to ensure node is great and support and empower those working in it.  
**CA:** You could also argue that it’s a strong core but that’s subjective depending on who’s using it for what.  
**SH:** Initially we want to focus on Node.js. Then are there related projects we should pull under the umbrella?  
**IS:** We don’t want to limit ourselves, but it could be reworded. “Node.js and associated projects.”  
**TF:** I’ve talked to module owners who are looking to transfer ownership.  
**IS:** Are the technical folks eager to own other people’s code.  
**SH:** If a project is added it must have a lead and be staffed.  
**IS:** I think “Node.js and related projects” leaves that door open, but leaves escape hatch for denying unrelated works.  
**CS:** That’s at the discretion of the technical committee and board.  
**TM:** And there are those who may have legal questions and need someone to talk to.  
**IS:** For example, code that parses Excel files.  
**TM:** We shouldn’t have to rewrite mission statement later. Make it broad enough to cover these cases.  
**CS:** That was my original point; keep it broad.  
**SH:** Had conversations with TN, TF, and BB regarding services or staffing. Want to make sure those are captured such that we can put the funding to good use.  
_Slide 4_  
**TN:** What does the certification program entail?  
**IR:** There’s a dedicated WG  
**JZ:** 2 hours hands on, proctored exam.  
**TN:** Please excuse my anti-academic-ness. I suck at testing, so the idea of testing doesn’t still well.  
**DC:** Not actually how it works. Self-administered, automated thing to ensure you’re not breaking things.  
**TM:** For people taking Node and using it at work to show their management.  
**DS:** Not for you, Trevor.  
**TN:** I’m in a unique position, but there are many like me who do not learn in this way.  
**SH:** You aren’t unique in that way. There are a lot of devs who have taken a different path. Maybe we need to find a way to accommodate different paths to get there.  
**IR:** Before we discussed leaving these details out initially.  
**TM:** Really just a range of possibilities.  
**JZ:** It’s not a small investment, but really an aspirational goal. Incentivises people to increase their skills. There will be different ways for devs to prove their worth.  
**DS:** Companies will determine the worth.  
**IR:** We do this already. Some care, some don’t  
**SH:** Will post for comments, but please review soon. We do want to accommodate whole community so if things needs to be added, we’ll do it. A mentoring program was suggested, so that should be added.  
**DS:** I would like to kick that (mentorship) off on that Monday (NodeSummit).  


### Path to Merge io.js and Node.js (SH, BB, TF)
**TF:** BB and I discussed prior to Christmas.  
**BB:** I don’t have notes available, but highlights are potential issues in Node.js program operation, how can the team be organized better, and how to define roadmap. As for this discussion, merging would be possible or at least the projects could work together in a structured way. BB and IS consistently say they expect the projects to unify, but the other contributors don’t believe the AB will produce anything good so they see it as theoretical. That said WRT NodeSummit there should be a concrete plan. Should current node contributors contribute to iojs with the expectation that iojs get folded back into node.js. Operationally iojs is working better. When the change actually happens, rename or better definition could happen.  
**TF:** One goal is to define roadmap, so best thing is to have the roadmap conversation. If there are things in existing projects that have proven ideas that fit the roadmap, they should be integrated back into Node.js. There have been multiple ideas for workshop time, but maybe roadmap talk would be more interesting than board meeting, ultimately leading to a technical summit.  
**DS:** I don’t think those things are mutually exclusive.  
**IS:** If we’re talking about merging iojs into Node, it’s pretty straighforward. Fix governance, foundation, and releases then they could merge. Those take time and that’s understood. Been forthcoming that the hope and intention is to merge project.  
**IR:** Sounds like TJ was suggesting a community forum and technical discussion around merge and roadmap.  
**TF:** It’s a broader conversation.  


## New Action Items
**SH:** Post Discussion Deck to Google Docs  
**TJ:** Short-term WG for completing discussion on iojs/Node.js merge.  


## Next Meeting
Please join our next meeting, Thursday Jan 29, 2015 at 12:00 PM PST / 3:00 PM EST at https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/524998381 or please dial-in in using your telephone.  


```
United States: +1 (626) 521-0010
Austria: +43 (0) 7 2088 1033
Belgium: +32 (0) 28 08 4296
Canada: +1 (647) 497-9371
Denmark: +45 (0) 69 91 89 21
Finland: +358 (0) 942 41 5770
France: +33 (0) 170 950 585
Germany: +49 (0) 692 5736 7205
Ireland: +353 (0) 19 030 050
Italy: +39 0 693 38 75 50
Netherlands: +31 (0) 208 080 208
New Zealand: +64 (0) 9 925 0481
Norway: +47 21 04 29 12
Spain: +34 911 82 9890
Sweden: +46 (0) 852 500 179
Switzerland: +41 (0) 435 0167 65
United Kingdom: +44 (0) 330 221 0096  

Access Code: 273-347-861
Audio PIN: Shown after joining the meeting  

Meeting ID: 273-347-861  

```  
