# Joyent Node.js Advisory Board Meeting Minutes - April 6, 2015


## Attendees
Chris Williams (CW)
Chris Saint-Amant (CS)
Bert Belder (BB)
Daniel Shaw (DS)
Scott Hammond (SH)
Mikeal Rogers (MR)
Mike Dolan (MD)
Danese Cooper (DC)
Todd Moore (TM)
Gianugo Rabellino (GR)
Trevor Norris (TN)
Issac Roth (IR)


## Recap
**CW:** Review of the Action Items

**BB:** Posted to the IO.js


## Reconciliation Status
**MD:** Last time we are trying to get a pull request into the advisory. There was a lot of discussion, mainly around the node and io.js communities and the project life cycle. MR has been driving a lot of the discussion around the reconciliation and merger. A lot of discussion about the working groups and

**MR:** Pull request #33 it is a full redo of the project lifecycle. Review details are current a TODO and figure out where the current working groups are going to go. Where the requirements sit for the working groups.

**MD** provided a review of the various documents

**MR** provide a status on the reconciliation efforts and workflow

**DS:** Seeking a timeline

**MD:** Early to mid may

**IR:** did the relevant things happen on the project and how are we tracking?

**MD:** Work streams that we are running are on track, everything has been pretty close or before the deadlines we have set up.

## Public Questions
**Travis Odem:** Thanks for the website; would be nice to have it linked from the main website

**DS:** We tracked down who has commit rights to the website. SH to connect the advisory board for what we are seeking.

## io.js Discussion
**BB:** A discussion about https://github.com/iojs/io.js/issues/1336. and the tremendous back and forth Bert provides an outline of the discussion and the discussion

**SH:** There seemed to be a lot of the unknown and the endorsing a model that was resulting infrequent releases. A BDFL model, despite a lot of people talking to the contrary it is something we need to re-iterate what we are after here with the foundation. A couple key points we need to reiterate, MR made attempts, the Board and TSC the goal is the board work on business, financial, legal and the TSC be a self governing technical decision body of the project, the more we say that the better. Some people did weigh in on this but maybe not enough. There is a large amount of diversity from corporate to robotics/IoT to enterprise/Fortune 100 to others. There are different needs. Part of what the foundation can do is help to surface the needs of different members in the community. The needs of the various groups being met and heard. If the foundation is set up well, it should do all of that and balance those needs and also clearly try to set this up where the TSC can drive decisions. It does take some time to read through the docs and the intent is there. One of my concerns because of the discord, there are parts of this community and it does create risk and a lot of people of the community. Opens the potential for a lot of opportunity be displaced by other projects. Node has such a great ability to address it and work with it.

**IR:** I wonder if it could be done sooner, the optics of that look like only big companies are creating this foundation. due to a lot of people not “reading” it appears a lot of Io.js is community and node.js is corporate. Didn’t read or Didn’t trust are left seeing corporations only in node and io.js is not. There is a lot of corporations involved in both. Do we have a community representative on the board or other ways? Maybe move things around in the documentation.  On the project plan there is election of silver sponsor, what are the details about it?

**MD:** In terms of the optics, we have a handful of companies with a significant amount of resource to help make this happen and two communities trying to come together. We should do something more.

**BB:** Maybe we could do an AMA and make themselves known and offer themselves as spokespeople. Can we make a video?

**IR:** What if we make it with everyone in here who have been working in good faith and present that we are working on this together.

**MR:** Fidelty’s representative is Travell Perkins, there is a video of him talking about this, we might want to tweet that up.

**TM:** We need a description about the end state of the foundation and the corporate folks to comment on the process.

**IR:** Can the linux foundation do something about other board members. And make them more personable/ faceful.

**MR:** Backing up, there is fear that is completely speculative and lot of it can be handled with more information. We have a document that separates the two, even if we publicize the board charter, the best thing we can get from this group of people that talks about how these kinds of boards operate. This is why we care about doing this kind of work and why you get involved and love what you do. Board description and split organization we have developed.

**DC:** I have a panel that we could use to publicize this stuff and making it well known. I have talked about giving away node t-shirts at both of our booths. Maybe there should be more of a way to increase the community feel. Action Item to make that more robust discussion on that.

**MD:** We can help with this and help with how to engage and where to engage.

**DS:** That ties into what I was going to ask the linux foundation, we are adopting this website that CW built and can put together, do we want to have a more blogging/contenty space on that or does the linux foundation want to do that with the NF is having set up.

**SH:** There is a path to make the website available.

**DS:** We need to develop a focal point and would be nice to have that come from the foundation site.

**SH:** There is a goal to make the website in the foundation. what if we formed a new working group.

**MR:** IO.js working group is very active and ideally we would have them come over and work with the node.js team.

**SH:** I will take that as an action item


## Enterprise versus Community

**BB:** Bridging enterprise and community. In IO.js they aren’t concerned with enterprisy. We have customers and they want this. Because the information has so many hops before it reaches the people who do the develop, it is often unclear. Maybe we could do a survey of CTOs/CIOs and that.

**TM:** normally this is done in the foundation that goes out and gathers this information, ideally we could do this in the charter and the bylaws. This is common.

**MR:** We did this for the io.js roadmap.

## New Action Items
**SH:** Connect up the io.js and node.js website working group to get more visibility about these going-on.




## Next Meeting
Please join our next meeting, Friday April 24, 2015 at 3:00 PM PST / 6:00 PM EST connection information is available at [http://nodeadvisoryboard.com](http://nodeadvisoryboard.com).
