# October 23, 2014

## Call to order
In attendance:

* Trevor Norris
* Cian O'Maidin
* Issac Roth
* Chris Saint-Amant
* Bert Belder
* Danese Cooper
* Todd Moore
* Gianugo Rabellino
* Dan Shaw
* Timothy J Fontaine
* Scott Hammond
* Kevin Decker
* Erik Toth
* Isaac Schlueter
* Chris Williams

## Advisory Board Function and Operation
Discussion of difference between the interim (current) and the standard (future) advisory board roles and responsibilities. It is clearly noted that the current group is specific to a bootstrap effort, and not the standard/long-term advisory board. The focus of the interim is to define how the standard advisory board should operate after the bootstrapping phase.

## Representation
As a function of the bootstrapping of this effort, there was an acknowledgement made regarding the lack of broader representation for the node.js ecosystem. The current interim board has a high corporate representation over community representation. It was noted that this should be modeled better/more inclusively for the final/stable board of advisors.

## Frequency of Meeting
For the interim group it was decided that a bi-weekly meeting should be held for the entire board with working groups split out between each meeting to deep dive into outlined items. the final/stable board of advisors should convene monthly.

## Governance Structure/Model
Scott proposed the structure outlined http://nodejs.org/about/advisory-board/ Before we can clearly define what the role of the Advisory Board should be, there needs to be a broader evaluation of the various consistuencies for Node.js and how they each participate in the Node project. The primary stakeholders we discussed are:

* Node Project Team
* Joyent
* Advisory Board
* Node Users + Community

Also important to define how much input each of these stakeholders provides into the organizational structure of the project and/or the technical direction of the Node.js platform. This lead to the question of formal and informal roles and responsibilities among and between these groups with respect to

* Organizational Structure and Governance
* Project Leadership
* Product Management
* Providing Roadmap Input
* Defining Roadmap
* Technical Contributions

## Action Items

* A working group that will work through project staffing needs and project technical governance process.
  * TJ is the identified responsible party for this working group.
  * Isaacs proposed starting with work product from prior discussions and see what has to change to make it acceptable to all parties.  Isaacs to provide details/history for TJâ€™s benefit.
  * Does this working group work in the open?
  * Can the repo for this not be in joyentâ€™s org?
  * Working group is TBD New Name TC (including TJ and Danese)
    * Ben Noordhuis
    * Bert Belder
    * Isaac Z. Schlueter
    * TJ Fontaine
    * Nathan Rajlich
    * Trevor Norris
    * Danese Cooper
    * Fedor Indutny
    * Alexis Campailla
    * Erik Toth
* Set up Advisory Board Meeting in 2 week time using doodle.
  * If we have our next meeting the week of Nov 3rd, then every other week after that means we effectively skip Thanksgiving and Christmas - great point.
* New Github Repository for centerpoint of communication -
* Public communication
  * Wiki
  * Tuesday target for notes and meeting schedule.
  * dshaw to work on proposal for how to include community participation
* Proposed format for Future Meetings
  * 30 minutes starting point with a global discussion.
  * 60 minutes of executive discussion.