# Joyent Node.js Advisory Board Meeting Minutes - February 24, 2015  

## Attendees  
Chris Williams (CW)  
Erik Toth (ET)  
Todd Moore (TM)  
Jim Zemlin (JZ)  
Mike Dolan (MD)  
Bert Belder (BB)  
Scott Hammond (SH)  
Isaac Schlueter (IS)
TJ Fontaine (TF)  
Gianugo Rabellino (GR)  
Chris Saint-Amant (CS)
Issac Roth (IR)  




## Public Recap  

### Review Previous Meeting Minutes (ET)  
[2015-01-29 Meeting Minutes](../2015-01-29/minutes.md)  

### Review of Open Action Items (CW, et. al.)
**SH:** Regarding trademark and website WG we developed recommendations for usage of the trademark. Feedback rolling into final recommendation and result published to the nodejs.org website. (If they aren’t published they will be.) Also, with regard to revamping the existing posted policies, those would be deferred to foundation to address.  

### Open Public Discussion
No discussion.  


## New Business (Private)  

### Review of Open Action Items (CW, et. al.)
**TM:** Feedback on foundation has been positive.  Â
**BB:** Two meetings before NodeSummit. Biggest roadblocks are governance model and which codebase to use as starting point for realigned foundation.  
**SH:** We messaged that it would take a couple months to setup foundation (legal, business, technical tracks, etc). Was hoping to walk through the project plan in more detail during this meeting. JM and MD put together a plan that outlines details, timelines, etc. <shared via screensharing>  
**CS:** Just ensure there’s time enough for discussion.  
**JZ:** <Introduction of MD> Responsible for organizing, planning, and standing up foundation.  
**JZ:** The Linux Foundation starts drafts for legal docs to start corporation, such as bylaws, incorporate as non-profit business, etc. That’s one “work track” led by MD and will largely be created with the team that signed the MOU. Not particularly controversial or complex. Similar docs are available on any Linux Foundation project; somewhat unique per project, but overall similar. Will set up mailing lists as well. WIll also set up a set of calls for each of the stakeholders. On the business side there are 2 constituents: underwriters and corresponding legal teams. The marketing track works with the leadership team to develop announcements, create web properties and current AB WGs will feed into this track. Final component is the technical track. On the technical track moving forward with developing governance, starting with input from AB WG. As BB suggested, there are still open questions, but it will be picking up where AB left off. TJ will be leading with JZ staff. I would suggest separating these technical discussion from normal operations of Node.js. In late April to early May, if everything is complete agreements will be signed, elections will take place, and the first board meeting will occur.  
**GR:** This looks like it’s going to be operating in a closed-door fashion. This process needs to be more open and have conversations with community, io.js, press, etc.  
**JZ:** Agreed, we want to address that early. Tried to get it down to 60 day timeframe. The legal review tends to take a fixed amount of time but will compress, if possible.  
**GR:** Time isn’t the issue, openness is the issue. Keep everyone informed of the progress.  
**JZ:** Agreed. Will update with periodic external updates.  
**CS:** We should discuss what the leadership and technical meetings should look like. Governance seems to the be biggest sticking point, so what needs to be done tactically, what logistics are required, etc?  
**JZ:** On the business side, I don’t think there’s controversy, but with regard to technical discussions I defer to community/stakeholders. We’re starting with the AB and existing project, but open to incorporating feedback.  
**SH:** Maybe instead of March 12 as draft, if TF can draw up strawman from WG he can socialize prior and work through key points.  
**TF:** Definitely. How much openness: posting notes or public discussion?  
**GR:** Depends on topic. Should be as open as possible. Since governance is key, should be as open as possible. Don’t want to come up with something and then try to sell it, but develop in open.  
**MD:** We’ve observed that these topics are better solved in smaller groups. Can that be done?  
**JZ:** I think we can. The stakeholders are not shy.  
**IR:** I think this group is shy on this topic (governance). We need to schedule working times.  
**CS:** Ad-hoc communication hasn’t produced anything meaningful. Need to schedule half or full-day meeting with stronger facilitation.  
**IS:** We have been at this same impasse since first AB meeting. We need to see very explicit clarity on what our goals are. Clear to me how both sides benefit so there’s no disagreement there, but when it comes down to tradeoffs we all talk past each other.  
**JZ:** Can I suggest LF facilitates. CS is also in a position be pretty neutral to facilitate. At minimum I recommend getting everyone together on the 12th to hash things out. What else can we set up in the interim? MD and I are happy to facilitate.  
**GR:** I can make time.  
**IS:** The feedback I’ve heard (across orgs) is that people want an explicit statement that merging is a goal. Makes for a good story, but isn’t backed by the stability (of leadership) people want. It’s less important that we solve governance foremost, but establish shared goals and intent and understanding needs.  
**CS:** Need to align on principles, etc.  
**IS:** Not even talking “high level”. What does it look like if the projects were to merge? We need to align on that. What does success look like? Know where each other stands will help progress.  
**IR:** I like the idea of issuing a public statement of intention and an outline of work toward that goal. Helps with community transparency.  
**JZ:** I defer to all parties on this. I’m concerned with output.  
**TM:** Idea of getting together with arbiter needs to happen.
**IS:** TM, do you think it’s reasonable to expect everyone dedicates time, or expect people to do their homework.  
**TM:** Absolutely, we need people to come prepared. Need to document and score ideas prior to meeting. Work through pros and cons objectively. We’re trying to establish this for when things go bad.  
**IR:** CS are you willing to facilitate this?  
**CS:** Timing and bandwidth is the biggest challenge. I don’t want to be the bottleneck.  
**JZ:** Certainly my staff can make the time. My concern is that my team isn’t deeply technical enough.  
**SH:** This is not technical, it’s how we think the group should make decisions, defining goals, use-cases, customers, etc.  
**MD:** Is that written down from previous AB work?  
**SH:** We’ve had a lot of comments about it, but there’s been no statement. We’ve tried to be all-inclusive: ensure node can expand to all use-cases. If that’s what we want to do , how do we accomplish it, if not, how can we narrow scope?  
**JZ:** Would you like us to facilitate drafting language around that?  
**SH:** If you want to take a first pass, but we can add to it based on what we’ve seen from our experience. We can iterate through that.  
**SH:** Should have this completed prior to the 12th.  
**IS:** I have a rough draft of homework questions.  
**JZ:** We understand the urgency, incremental steps, external updates, etc, so we will incorporate into plan. I’m hearing it really is technical governance where the work needs to happen. Once these docs are done we want to recruit members as a fundraising effort.  
**IR:** Re: TC meetings, is there a person who will drive the meeting.  
**SH:** We’re looking for a facilitator and heard MD will do that.  
**JZ:** In lieu of CS we can offer MD. Bert offered to facilitate. We’re committed to something on the 12th, but might be good to get things going beforehand.  
**CW:** What happens to the AB moving forward? Continue or dissolve in lieu of foundation.  
**TM:** In my experience we move it forward, but focus on public engagement. I suggest we keep it moving, but dial back frequency and stay public about what’s happening.  
**IR:** If we want to keep this going we need to define how AB will exist in the future, e.g. seats added or removed. We should have a meeting to discuss.  
**CW:** Let’s use the time at the next meeting to focus on future of AB with 10 minute focus on foundation.  

### New Action Items  
**MD:** Will add announcement checkpoints to plan to update external parties.  
**BB, TF, MD:** Schedule Technical governance and reconciliation meeting.  
**MD:** Facilitate/draft language around goals.
**IS:** Send out homework questions to stakeholders in technical discussion.  
**CW:** Add discussion time re: AB future to schedule for next meeting.  


## Next Meeting  
Please join our next meeting, Monday March 9, 2015 at 2:00 PM PST / 5:00 PM EST at https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/524998381 or please dial-in in using your telephone.  


```  
United States: +1 (626) 521-0010  
Austria: +43 (0) 7 2088 1033  
Belgium: +32 (0) 28 08 4296  
Canada: +1 (647) 497-9371  
Denmark: +45 (0) 69 91 89 21  
Finland: +358 (0) 942 41 5770  
France: +33 (0) 170 950 585  
Germany: +49 (0) 692 5736 7205  
Ireland: +353 (0) 19 030 050  
Italy: +39 0 693 38 75 50  
Netherlands: +31 (0) 208 080 208  
New Zealand: +64 (0) 9 925 0481  
Norway: +47 21 04 29 12  
Spain: +34 911 82 9890  
Sweden: +46 (0) 852 500 179  
Switzerland: +41 (0) 435 0167 65  
United Kingdom: +44 (0) 330 221 0096

Access Code: 273-347-861  
Audio PIN: Shown after joining the meeting

Meeting ID: 273-347-861

```
