# November 20, 2014

## Attendance
* Kevin Decker
* Chris Williams
* Issac Roth
* Chris Saint-Amant
* Gianugo Rabellino
* Scott Hammond
* Todd Moore
* Erik Toth
* TJ Fontaine
* Daniel Shaw
* Cian O'Maiden
* Isaac Schlueter
* Bert Belder


## Review of Action Items

Github repository identified that it has been set up. There was discussion about using the node.js organization in Github that is currently owned by Felix Geisend√∂rfer and about how that may be transition to the communal use.

Community feedback was provided regarding broadening the influence and input into the advisory board. Including a lot of discussion that was conducted through the new [Github repository](https://github.com/joyent/nodejs-advisory-board/)

The initial information around project governance and review has been posted. Significant discussion around [Issue 6 - Voting Model](https://github.com/joyent/nodejs-advisory-board/issues/6) and [Issue 13 - Project Governance and Contribution Policy](https://github.com/joyent/nodejs-advisory-board/pull/13) and where they currently sit.

Danese was unfortunately not available, Scott provided a quick review of the status of the trademark discussions. The working group walked through the current policy and identified the need for more clarification on acceptable use to encompass professional services and products. The group will utilize Mongo, Eclipse, and Docker as examples projects to draw from. Agreed that there is no certification products and since there is no process to do that, there will be no certification for training or product compatibility. Project teams should be publishing the acceptance testing and organizations that want to test against the test suite and should be posting the results to the node.js repo. Implementors are solely responsible for bug fixes, testing, etc. for their projects and the node.js project team is not responsible for those items.

## New Working Groups

The following working groups were identified to tackle specific core issues:

* Technical Committee/Governance Working Group (will be between 6-12 people in size)
  * Isaac Schlueter
  * TJ Fontaine
* Code of Conduct WG
  * TJ Fontaine
  * Isaac Schlueter
  * Danese Cooper
* Node.js Compliance/Certification WG
  * TJ Fontaine
  * Daniel Shaw
  * Trevor Norris
  * Todd  Moore
  * Bert Belder
  * Cian O'Maiden
* Advisory Community WG
  * Daniel Shaw
  * Scott Hammond
  * Cian O'Maiden
  * Chris Saint-Amant



| Action Item | Deadline | Responsible |
|:------------|----------|-------------|
| Code of Conduct Working Group | Next Meeting | Todd |
| Governance Model Working Group Meeting Schedule | Nov 21 | izs |
| Compliance/certification Working Group Meeting Schedule | Nov 21 | dshaw |
| Issue filed to talk about each working groups members and having those issues locked before proposal | Nov 21 | TJ |




# Next Meeting

Please join our next meeting, Nov 20, 2014 at 2:00 PM EST / 11:00 AM PST connection information is available at [http://nodeadvisoryboard.com](http://nodeadvisoryboard.com).